# CN Configuration

The CN configuration is to create a data directory and set up several values in the configuration file kcnd.conf.

Create the CN data directory.

Create a CN node key & a node URI.

Configure the CN with kcnd.conf.

## CN Data Directory Creation
Considering the fact that the size of Klaytn blockchain data is always increased, it is recommended to use a big enough storage. You may need to create the directory on your specific path.

$ mkdir -p ~/kcnd_home
Please add the directory path on the file conf/kcnd.conf as follows.

...
DATA_DIR=~/kcnd_home
...
## CN Setup
CN setup is done by the following steps.

Copy the initial files to the CN data directory.

Configure the kcnd.conf file.

### Setup of Initial Files
In order to operate a CN, a nodekey is required. The KCN binary will create a new one for you if you do not have it. If you have one, you need to put your nodekey into the CN data directory. The way to create a nodekey is described in the prerequisites section. The following command line copies the nodekey into the CN data directory.

$ cp nodekey ~/kcnd_home
If you are participating in the Cypress or Baobab network, please update the configuration file conf/kcnd.conf as follows.

Cypress network

# cypress or baobab is only available if you don't specify NETWORK_ID.
NETWORK="cypress"
# if you specify NETWORK_ID, a private network is created.
NETWORK_ID=
...
Baobab network

# cypress or baobab is only available if you don't specify NETWORK_ID.
NETWORK="baobab"
# if you specify NETWORK_ID, a private network is created.
NETWORK_ID=
...
After the above configuration, you can skip the following contents. The Klaytn node will do it automatically for you. Please continue the setup from Setup Rewardbase.
If you are not participating in the Cypress or Baobab network such that you are building a private network, please continue the rest of this section.

The following files are needed in order to initialize a CN.

static-nodes.json contains all the other CNs' addresses which will be connected to your CN.

genesis.json is a genesis file in order to create customized genesis block of your network.

The file static-nodes.json must contain all the CNs that your CN is connected to. The addresses in the file will be dialed from your CN unlimitedly. You may need to contact to obtain these addresses from the Klaytn network operator. Please contact to the official Klaytn email for more details (bootstrap@klaytn.com for Cypress or baobab@klaytn.com for Baobab).
The genesis.json can be downloaded on the links Cypress genesis.json or Baobab genesis.json. Otherwise, use the following command line.

$ curl -X GET http://packages.klaytn.net/cypress/genesis.json -o genesis.json
Or,

$ curl -X GET http://packages.klaytn.net/baobab/genesis.json -o genesis.json
Please check out the details of Genesis JSON file.

The following command line copies the static-nodes.json file into the CN data directory.

$ cp static-nodes.json ~/kcnd_home
### Creation of a Genesis Block
Before starting a CN, it is necessary to initialize the genesis block using kcn and genesis.json.

$ kcn init --datadir ~/kcnd_home genesis.json
...
The --datadir argument must be the same as DATA_DIR in the configuration file conf/kcnd.conf.

Note:

if you followed the installation section properly, the bin directory path is added on the variable $PATH to run globally.

the above command line is executed under the path that the genesis.json file is downloaded.

All required steps are done for launching a CN.

### Setup Rewardbase
As the reward of participating consensus of the Klaytn network, CNs can receive some KLAYs. For this reason, it is required to set an address on the configuration file kcnd.conf.

The ways to create a new account are various, but the kcn also provides the functionality. You can check the help message with the following command.

$ kcn account new --help
One of the example of doing this procedure is as follows. First of all, you need to create a new account which the reward KLAYs will be sent to.

$ kcn account new --datadir ~/kcnd_home
INFO[03/15,09:04:43 +09] [17] Setting connection type                   nodetype=cn conntype=-0
INFO[03/15,09:04:43 +09] [17] Maximum peer count                        KLAY=25 LES=0 total=25
INFO[03/15,09:04:43 +09] [17] SBN is disabled.
Your new account is locked with a password. Please give a password. Do not forget this password.
Passphrase:
Repeat passphrase:
Address: {d13f7da0032b1204f77029dc1ecbf4dae2f04241}
As a result of this, it will create the associated keystore on the path that you define. Next, you need to put the created address in the file kcnd.conf file as follows.

...
REWARDBASE="d13f7da0032b1204f77029dc1ecbf4dae2f04241"
...
Keep in mind that the keystore and the password that you created is significantly important, so you must be careful to manage them. See more details about kcnd.conf on the Configuration File section.

### Fast Sync (Optional)
Each CN maintains a copy of the network's chain data. If a node is out of sync, it can obtain this data from other nodes in the network -- a process known as syncing. When a new CN is first started, it must download the entire chain data from the network.

To accelerate this process, you may perform a fast sync by downloading a snapshot of the chain data before starting the CN. This can dramatically reduce the time the CN will spend syncing on first start.

Download the latest chaindata snapshot from the Cypress snapshot archive or Baobab snapshot archive. Before starting kcnd, extract the snapshot inside the DATA_DIR you configured in kcnd.conf.

For example:

$ tar -C ~/kcnd_home -xvf klaytn-cypress-chaindata-latest.tar.gz
Or,

$ tar -C ~/kcnd_home -xvf klaytn-baobab-chaindata-latest.tar.gz
After the data is extracted, you may start the CN normally.

## CN Start/Stop/Status
The kcnd command can control the CN's lifecycle.

start

$ kcnd start
termination

$ kcnd stop
status

$ kcnd status
