# EN Configuration

The EN configuration is a similar procedure as the package setup above apart from the fact that the RPM installation should use the following path.

File Name

Location

ken

/usr/bin/ken

kend.conf

/etc/kend/conf/kend.conf

Create the EN data directory.

Configure the EN with kend.conf.

## EN Data Directory Creation
Considering the fact that the size of Klaytn blockchain data keeps increasing, it is recommended to use a big enough storage. You need to create the directory on your specific path.

$ sudo mkdir -p /var/kend/data
Note: You should update the the data directory environment variable $DATA_DIR on the configuration file kend.conf.

DATA_DIR=/var/kend/data
## EN Setup
EN setup is done by the following steps.

Copy the genesis.json file to the EN data directory.

Configure the kend.conf file.

### Creation of a Genesis Block
If you are participating in the preconfigured network such as Cypress or Baobab, you can skip this section. Please go to the section Configuration directly. The rest of this section describes how to initialize a genesis block with preconfigured genesis.json file. This may be useful when you build a private network.

The genesis.json can be downloaded on the links Cypress genesis.json or Baobab genesis.json. Otherwise, use the following command line.

$ curl -X GET http://packages.klaytn.net/cypress/genesis.json -o genesis.json
Or,

$ curl -X GET http://packages.klaytn.net/baobab/genesis.json -o genesis.json
Please check out the details of Genesis JSON file. Before starting an EN, it is necessary to initialize the genesis block using ken and genesis.json.

$ ken init --datadir /var/kend/data genesis.json
...
The --datadir argument must be the same as DATA_DIR in the configuration file conf/kend.conf.

Note:

If you followed the installation section properly, the bin directory path where the ken binary is located is added to the environment variable $PATH to run globally.

The above command is executed under the path where the genesis.json file is downloaded.

### Configuration
Configuring the kend.conf file is the way to configure an EN. This is a configuration example for connecting to the Klaytn network.

Cypress network

# cypress, baobab are only available values if you don't specify NETWORK_ID.
NETWORK="cypress"
# if you specify NETWORK_ID, a private network is created.
NETWORK_ID=
...
Baobab network

# Configuration file for the kend
# cypress, baobab are only available values if you don't specify NETWORK_ID.
NETWORK="baobab"
# if you specify NETWORK_ID, a private network is created.
NETWORK_ID=
...
All required steps are done for launching an EN.

### Fast Sync (Optional)
Each EN maintains a copy of the network's chain data. If a node is out of sync, it can obtain this data from other nodes in the network -- a process known as syncing. When a new EN is first started, it must download the entire chain data from the network.

To accelerate this process, you may perform a fast sync by downloading a snapshot of the chain data before starting the EN. This can dramatically reduce the time the EN will spend syncing on first start.

Download the latest chaindata snapshot from the Cypress snapshot archive or Baobab snapshot archive. Before starting kend, extract the snapshot inside the DATA_DIR you configured in kend.conf.

For example:

$ tar -C /var/kend/data -xvf klaytn-cypress-chaindata-latest.tar.gz
Or,

$ tar -C /var/kend/data -xvf klaytn-baobab-chaindata-latest.tar.gz
After the data is extracted, you may start the EN normally.

## EN Start/Stop/Status
You can start/stop the Klaytn service with the following systemctl command.

Note: the root access is required to control the installed files.

start

$ sudo systemctl start kend.service
termination

$ sudo systemctl stop kend.service
status

$ sudo systemctl status kend.service
### Troubleshooting
If you meet the following error,

Failed to start kend.service: Unit not found.
you might need to take the changed configuration with the following command.

$ systemctl daemon-reload
