# Overview
Klaytn has built a platform design based on carefully researched product principles and experimental ideas. Figure 1 illustrates the overall architecture of Klaytn, highlighting the major components which will be described in detail in the following sections. With design goals clearly set on mass adoption, Klaytn’s platform architecture accommodates high level of flexibility, expandability, and modularity needed for horizontal growth across multiple markets, with built-in scalability solutions and modular toolkits easily adaptable for differentiated global business needs.


Figure 1. Klaytn Blockchain Platform Architecture
Note that Klaytn plans to iteratively evolve the platform design over time as it progresses towards its intended goal. We will release technical reports on performance achieved by our design choices and implementations, and in each report we will analyze the rationale behind our design decisions and production deliverables.

## The Trust Model in Klaytn
Private blockchain can reach consensus more efficiently than public chains. BFT (Byzantine Fault Tolerant) based private blockchains, in particular, are capable of achieving high performance and efficiency by restricting the number of participant nodes. Such configuration, however, makes an expensive trade-off: they fail to make meaningful use of blockchain benefits because limiting the number of nodes reduce data redundancy and weaken decentralization, and their permissive nature degrade transparency since consensus results are only open to a small group of participants.

Klaytn, however, chooses Istanbul BFT as its consensus algorithm based on the belief that BFT’s performance benefits can be combined with the benefits of public blockchains through smart design choices. We believe that it is possible to build a public blockchain that retains its robust security and transparency while delivering enterprise-grade performance and reliability. Towards this goal, Klaytn adopts a trust model of “private consensus with public disclosure”, where a smaller group of consensus nodes (CNs) execute BFT consensus in a private network while surrounded by a larger public network of permissionless endpoint nodes (ENs) openly accessing (and where necessary, verifying) block generation results. Ultimately, Klaytn aims to perfect the combined balance of public security and transparency on a high-performance backend that empowers businesses and end-users with easy and reliable access to benefits offered by blockchain technology, and will continue to refine its network design to best support our objective.
