# Anchoring

As explained in Design section, Service Chain supports the data anchoring feature. This page shows how to enable the anchoring function. If it is enabled, SCN anchors periodically the service chain block data to the main chain to obtain the security of the service chain.

## Enable Anchoring
### Check Chain account of SCN
If you run SCN successfully, the main chain account is generated or set by mainchainbridgekey file. You can check the main chain account address vi RPC like the following.

$ kscn attach ~/kscnd_home/klay.ipc
Welcome to the Klaytn JavaScript console!
​
instance: Klaytn/vX.X.X/XXXX-XXXX/goX.X.X
​
 datadir: ~/kscnd_home
 modules: admin:1.0 subbridge:1.0 debug:1.0 governance:1.0 istanbul:1.0 klay:1.0 miner:1.0 net:1.0 personal:1.0 rpc:1.0 servicechain:1.0 txpool:1.0
 > subbridge.mainChainAccount
 "0x726e5C8705892989DAB1E9982FBE0B0A92eC84Bf"
This main chain account address is generated by mainchainbridgekey file in $dataDIR/klay directory.

### Charging Chain address
When SCN anchor the block data, SCN make an anchoring transaction by the chain account. Therefore the chain account need KLAY. You should charge enough KLAY to the chain account.

### Enable Anchoring
After charging KLAY, you can enable via RPC like below. You can refer Service Chain API more details.

> subbridge.anchoring(true)
true
## Check Anchoring
If the anchoring feature is enabled, SCN will anchor the block data to main chain. You can check the anchored data like below.

### Main-Bridge
In Main-Bridge, if chain indexing option is enabled, you can find the anchoring tx hash by a service chain block hash like below. You can refer Service Chain API more details.

> mainbridge.convertServiceChainBlockHashToMainChainTxHash("0xeadc6a3a29a20c13824b5df1ba05cca1ed248d046382a4f2792aac8a6e0d1880")
"0x9a68591c0faa138707a90a7506840c562328aeb7621ac0561467c371b0322d51"
### Sub-Bridge
In Sun-Bridge, You can check the last anchored block number like below. You can refer Service Chain API more details.

> subbridge.latestAnchoredBlockNumber
71025
