# PN Configuration

The PN configuration is to create a data directory and set up several values in the configuration file kpnd.conf.

Create a PN node key & a node URI.

Configure the PN with kpnd.conf.

## PN Data Directory Creation
Considering the fact that the size of Klaytn blockchain data is always increased, it is recommended to use a big enough storage. You may need to create the directory on your specific path.

$ mkdir -p /var/kpnd/data
## PN Setup
PN setup is done by the following steps.

Copy the initial files to the PN data directory.

Configure the kpnd.conf file.

### Setup of Initial Files
In order to operate a PN, a nodekey is required. The KPN binary will create a new one for you if you do not have it. If you have one, you need to put your nodekey into the PN data directory. The way to create a nodekey is in the prerequisites section. The following command line copies the nodekey into the PN data directory.

$ cp nodekey /var/kpnd/data
The static-nodes.json should be created from the PN operator. It contains the addresses that your PN is connected to. It is recommended to add the addresses including your CN and a PN from another Core Cell. Please contact to the Klaytn official email for more details (bootstrap@klaytn.com for Cypress or baobab@klaytn.com for Baobab).

static-nodes.json

[
  "kni://4f2f47f3bf35a2c576d3345e6e9c49b147d510c05832d2458709f63c3c90c76ead205975d944ed65e77dd4c6f63ebe1ef21d60da95952bc1e200e7487f4d9e1b@10.11.2.101:32323?discport=0&ntype=cn",
  "kni:////8dee912aeda2ccfaa4fe421f015d4d75c2e3fd4aab75fa399b42767caad33531e57f3356b4a4af374593e33ec4320e1325aa2390a7be2489fa6b5724894680eb@10.11.2.102:32323?discport=0&ntype=pn"
]
The node URI of the PN is in the prerequisites section. (Note: This IP address is different from CN public IP.) The following command line copies the static-nodes.json file into the PN data directory.

$ cp static-nodes.json /var/kpnd/data
If you are participating in the Cypress or Baobab network, please update the configuration file /etc/kpnd/conf/kpnd.conf as follows.

Cypress network

# cypress or baobab is only available if you don't specify NETWORK_ID.
NETWORK="cypress"
# if you specify NETWORK_ID, a private network is created.
NETWORK_ID=
...
Baobab network

# cypress or baobab is only available if you don't specify NETWORK_ID.
NETWORK="baobab"
# if you specify NETWORK_ID, a private network is created.
NETWORK_ID=
...
After the above configuration, you can skip the following contents. The Klaytn node will do it automatically for you. Please continue the setup from Fast Sync.
If you are not participating in the Cypress or Baobab network such that you are building a private network, please continue the rest of this section.

The following file is needed in order to initialize a PN.

genesis.json

The genesis.json can be downloaded on the links Cypress genesis.json or Baobab genesis.json. Please check out the details of Genesis JSON file.

### Creation of a Genesis Block
Before starting a PN, it is necessary to initialize the genesis block using kpn and genesis.json.

$ kpn init --datadir /var/kpnd/data genesis.json
...
Note:

$DATA_DIR is under the /var/kpnd/data which needs to be accessed by root (by default, $LOG_DIR which is /var/log/kpnd also requires the root privilege).

if you followed the installation section properly, the bin directory path is added on the variable $PATH to run globally.

the above command line is executed under the path that the genesis.json file is downloaded.

All required steps are done for launching a PN.

### Fast Sync (Optional)
Each PN maintains a copy of the network's chain data. If a node is out of sync, it can obtain this data from other nodes in the network -- a process known as syncing. When a new PN is first started, it must download the entire chain data from the network.

To accelerate this process, you may perform a fast sync by downloading a snapshot of the chain data before starting the PN. This can dramatically reduce the time the PN will spend syncing on first start.

Download the latest chaindata snapshot from the Cypress snapshot archive or Baobab snapshot archive. Before starting kpnd, extract the snapshot inside the DATA_DIR you configured in kpnd.conf.

For example:

$ tar -C /var/kpnd/data -xvf klaytn-cypress-chaindata-latest.tar.gz
Or,

$ tar -C /var/kpnd/data -xvf klaytn-baobab-chaindata-latest.tar.gz
After the data is extracted, you may start the PN normally.

## PN Start
You can start/stop the Klaytn service with the following systemctl command.

Note: the root access is required to control the installed files.

start

$ systemctl start kpnd.service
termination

$ systemctl stop kpnd.service
status

$ systemctl status kpnd.service
### Troubleshooting
If you meet the following error,

Failed to start kpnd.service: Unit not found.
you might need to take the changed configuration with the following command.

$ systemctl daemon-reload
